README.md, before:

# zio-http-sample
> :warning: **Nobody should think anything here is "correct".**

This is a sample web app meant to experiment with the following technologies:

- [zio-http](https://github.com/dream11/zio-http)
- [doobie](https://tpolecat.github.io/doobie/)
- [circe](https://circe.github.io/circe/)

It contains (in some shape or form) the following functionalities:
- Connect to and run SQL statements in a database
- Log requests and SQL statements
- Authenticate and authorize requests (using very primitive JWT implementation but easily changed)
- Pull configuration from an external file (using zio-config; for the moment just a .properties file but could change)

## Getting Started
Before starting the web app you'll need a local postgres instance running and then execute [db_setup.sql](src/main/resources/db_setup.sql).
This will create a database called _sample_ and populate it with some tables and data. To actually start the web
server execute `sbt run`; this will start a webserver at `localhost:8080`. 

The app is a very rudimentary todo manager that just exposes CRUD operations
on some `Todo(id: Long, entry: String)` objects. In order to use any of the endpoints you'll need a valid
JWT on the `X-Access-Token` header. To get a JWT use the `POST /login` endpoint with body
```json
{
  "username": "scott",
  "password": "test"
}
```
or any of the other username/password pairs from `db_setup.sql`

### Endpoints
The exposed endpoints and required roles (see [Roles](#roles) for more info) are given below:

- `POST /login`
```json
{
    "username": "scott",
    "password": "test"
}
```
- `GET /todo` (requires `admin` or `supervisor` role)
- `GET /todo/{id: Long}`
- `DELETE /todo/{id: Long}` (requires `admin` role)
- `POST /todo` (requires `admin` or `supervisor` role)
```json
{
    "entry": "Finish this README"
}
```
- `PATCH /todo/{id: Long}` (requires `admin` role)
```json
{
    "entry": "a new update"
}
```

### Roles
An _extremely_ primitive role system is setup just to experiment with. In particular, note that the permission checks
on endpoints uses roles instead of more granular permissions...again this was just to play around with. Regardless, to
modify a user's roles just update the `user_role` table. Note that `user_role.role` isn't a FK to anything so make
it whatever you'd like and that string will get added to the `roles` array in the JWT when you login.

To modify the roles required for a particular route find the route in [Main.scala](src/main/scala/Main.scala) and
modify the `roles` zio that's created before running the `TodoController` function. For example,
```scala
case Method.GET -> !! / "todo" => roles("admin" or "supervisor") *> TodoController.getAll
```
means that `GET /todo` requires an `admin` or `supervisor` role. Feel free to edit, remove, modify as you see fit.

Commit message:

Update readme to mention hideous commit history

README.md, after:

# zio-http-sample

:warning: **Nobody should think anything here is "correct".**

_I've also used this repo to practice with Github Actions so good luck parsing through the commit history_

This is a sample web app meant to experiment with the following technologies:

- [zio-http](https://github.com/dream11/zio-http)
- [doobie](https://tpolecat.github.io/doobie/)
- [circe](https://circe.github.io/circe/)

It contains (in some shape or form) the following functionalities:

- Connect to and run SQL statements in a database
- Log requests and SQL statements
- Authenticate and authorize requests (using very primitive JWT implementation but easily changed)
- Pull configuration from an external file (using zio-config; for the moment just a .properties file but could change)

## Getting Started

Before starting the web app you'll need a local postgres instance running and then execute [db_setup.sql](src/main/resources/db_setup.sql).
This will create a database called _sample_ and populate it with some tables and data. To actually start the web
server execute `sbt run`; this will start a webserver at `localhost:8080`.

The app is a very rudimentary todo manager that just exposes CRUD operations
on some `Todo(id: Long, entry: String)` objects. In order to use any of the endpoints you'll need a valid
JWT on the `X-Access-Token` header. To get a JWT use the `POST /login` endpoint with body

```json
{
  "username": "scott",
  "password": "test"
}
```

or any of the other username/password pairs from `db_setup.sql`

### Endpoints

The exposed endpoints and required roles (see [Roles](#roles) for more info) are given below:

- `POST /login`

```json
{
  "username": "scott",
  "password": "test"
}
```

- `GET /todo` (requires `admin` or `supervisor` role)
- `GET /todo/{id: Long}`
- `DELETE /todo/{id: Long}` (requires `admin` role)
- `POST /todo` (requires `admin` or `supervisor` role)

```json
{
  "entry": "Finish this README"
}
```

- `PATCH /todo/{id: Long}` (requires `admin` role)

```json
{
  "entry": "a new update"
}
```

### Roles

An _extremely_ primitive role system is setup just to experiment with. In particular, note that the permission checks
on endpoints uses roles instead of more granular permissions...again this was just to play around with. Regardless, to
modify a user's roles just update the `user_role` table. Note that `user_role.role` isn't a FK to anything so make
it whatever you'd like and that string will get added to the `roles` array in the JWT when you login.

To modify the roles required for a particular route find the route in [Main.scala](src/main/scala/Main.scala) and
modify the `roles` zio that's created before running the `TodoController` function. For example,

```scala
case Method.GET -> !! / "todo" => roles("admin" or "supervisor") *> TodoController.getAll
```

means that `GET /todo` requires an `admin` or `supervisor` role. Feel free to edit, remove, modify as you see fit.
